{
  "file": "lean_verifier.py",
  "logical_steps": [
    "1. Initialization and Setup: Establish connection to Lean proof environment. This can be via a local subprocess interface, a Lean API endpoint, or by executing shell commands that invoke Lean's proof checker. Confirm the method based on the environment details.",
    "2. Input Preparation: Receive the list of tactics (or tactic sequence) and the proof goal statement (a string representing the theorem statement). Ensure the tactics are formatted properly according to the LeanEuclid proof DSL conventions, e.g., each tactic as an algebraic string or command line argument, and the overall proof script as a sequence.",
    "3. Proof Script Construction: Combine the tactics into a single Lean proof script/block. This may involve wrapping the tactics into a 'proof ... end' block, or directly passing a sequence of tactics in a script file or command input. Inject necessary import statements or environment setup commands if required.",
    "4. Proof Verification Execution: Send the constructed proof script to the Lean environment for verification. This can be:
       - via subprocess call: Write the script to a temporary file and invoke 'lean --check filename' or similar command.
       - via API: Use the Lean server's API endpoint to submit the proof script for checking.
       - via command-line interface: Execute shell commands that parse and verify the proof."
    "5. Parsing Response: Interpret the output from Lean’s proof checker:
       - Success: the proof script verifies without errors.
       - Failure: any error message indicating proof incompleteness, tactics failure, or type mismatches.",
    "6. Return Boolean Result: Based on the output, return 'True' if the proof verifies successfully; otherwise, 'False'.",
    "7. Error Handling and Logging:
       - If the Lean environment returns a verification error, capture the message for debugging.
       - Handle timeouts, execution errors, or communication failures gracefully."
    "8. Optional Optimization: For repeated verification, maintain a connection/session setup with Lean to avoid re-initializing the environment each time."
  ],
  "Implementation considerations": [
    "The verification function should accept two inputs: a list of tactics (or a string containing the proof script), and the theorem statement (optional, mainly for contextual integrity).",
    "The output should be a simple boolean: 'True' if verification passes, 'False' if not.",
    "Use secure subprocess calls or API calls; avoid executing untrusted code or unvalidated inputs.",
    "Implement logging of command execution and returned messages for traceability.",
    "Configurable options: path to Lean executable, timeout durations, environment variables.",
    "Ensure the tactics sequence is fully and correctly formatted; if validation is needed, implement a basic parser or syntax checker prior to verification."
  ],
  "special notes": [
    "The verification process does not involve inspecting proof correctness manually; it relies solely on Lean’s kernel validation.",
    "The approach is modular: separate the proof script construction from the execution/verification step to facilitate testing and debugging.",
    "In the case of an API-based interface or external service, include retry logic or fallback options."
  ]
}