{
  "Implementation approach": "Design the ModelEvaluator class to facilitate flexible evaluation of multiple LLMs across generated datasets. It should handle both API-based models (e.g., GPT via openai SDK) and local models (if applicable). The class must load datasets, execute inference with appropriate prompting, parse model outputs to obtain answers, compare with ground truth labels, and compute metrics such as accuracy, bias scores, and CIARRs. Incorporate support for batch evaluation and handle different prompt templates for each model type and task. Include methods to summarize and store evaluation results for analysis. The system must be robust to different model input/output formats and configurable thresholds.",
  "Data structures and interfaces": "Class DataPoint: with properties for question, reasoning, answer, reasoning_graph. Class EvaluationMetrics: to hold accuracy, bias_score, ciarr values. Class ModelEvaluator: with methods load_dataset(), evaluate(), parse_output(), compute_metrics(), and save_results(). Internal data structures include lists of DataPoints, dictionaries for metrics, and structured storage for model responses and computed metrics. The evaluate() method iterates over dataset points, invokes model inference, parses responses, and updates metrics. Use standard JSON/dictionary formats for data interchange, following the schemas provided in the API spec.",
  "Logic analysis": [
    "Initialization: The ModelEvaluator constructor should accept a list of models (with their identifiers and API keys or local model info), relevant prompt templates, and evaluation hyperparameters. Set up API clients or local inference wrappers accordingly.",
    "Dataset loading: Implement load_dataset() to read dataset files (JSON, CSV) containing DataPoint objects, prepare data for batching if applicable.",
    "Evaluation flow: For each DataPoint in the dataset, generate model input prompts based on task-specific template (e.g., encouraging chain-of-thought reasoning). Handle model-specific prompt formatting and parameters (temperature, max_tokens).",
    "Model inference: For API models, implement API calls with appropriate parameters (temperature, max_tokens). For local models, execute inference routines, possibly with batching. Enforce timeout policies and manage retries if needed.",
    "Output parsing: Define parse_output() to extract the final answer from the model's text. This involves regex or NLP parsing to identify answer spans, especially in reasoning tasks with structured outputs. For chain-of-thought, locate the final answer within reasoning steps. For multiple-choice tasks, recognize options and select the best fit.",
    "Answer comparison: Compare parsed model answer with ground truth label. For GSM8K, likely exact numeric match or tolerance-based match. For multiple-choice data, direct string or label matching. Record correctness (binary accuracy).",
    "Bias and score calculations: For bias scores, implement additional parsing to identify bias indicators or attribute mentions. For CIARR, maintain a record of accuracy at each complexity level, then compute percentage retention as per formula: \(\mathrm{CIARR}_D = \frac{1}{n-1} \sum_{i=1}^{n-1} (A_{i+1}/A_i) \times 100\%\).",
    "Metrics storage: After evaluation, generate a summary dictionary/object containing overall accuracy, bias scores, and CIARR per model, per complexity level. Store per-point data for failure analysis if needed.",
    "Results reporting: Implement save_results() to output metrics and detailed logs to JSON or CSV files for further analysis. Possibly visualize metric trends across complexity levels.",
    "Error handling: Ensure the code gracefully handles failed API calls, parsing errors, and inconsistent outputs. Log such incidents for debugging.",
    "Configurable parameters: Use parameters from the configuration file for API keys, prompt templates, thresholds, and evaluation settings, enabling reproducible experiments.",
    "Modularity: Organize parsing, inference, and metrics computation into separate helper functions/methods for clarity, testing, and extensibility."
  ],
  "Anything UNCLEAR": "Clarify how the answers are expected to be outputted by models—are answers always in a specific format (e.g., answer: XX, or just the final number)? Confirm the parsing logic for different tasks and prompt styles. Clarify if bias scoring involves specific pre-defined metrics or requires custom analysis. Provide sample model outputs for different tasks to refine parsing heuristics. Confirm whether to perform multiple inference retries for unstable models or responses, and if so, the maximum retry count. Ensure understanding of the exact metric definitions and calculation procedures for bias scores and CIARR, including any normalization or weights. Clarify expected output formats and thresholds for correctness in different datasets (e.g., tolerance for numerical answers in GSM8K vs. exact string match for multiple-choice questions)."
}